>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MARCH 16th, CRIMEA MOVES AHEAD
WITH A REFERENDUM TO JOI
RUSSIA
WHAT COMES NEXT IN THE UKRAINE
CRISIS
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS FROM
THERE.
>>> THE LATEST ON TH
DISAPPEARANCY OF MALAYSIAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT 370.
>>> WHAT'S BEHIND THE INCREASE
IN SOME INFECTIOUS DISEASES NEXT
ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>> FROM NEW YORK IN NEW YORK.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
DEFYING INTERNATIONAL PROTESTS
CALLING THE PROCES
ILLEGITIMATE, CRIMEA WENT AHEA
WITH A REFERENDUM AND VOTE
OVERWHELMINGLY TO JOIN RUSSIA.
THE VOTE CAME ALMOST TWO WEEKS
AFTER RUSSIAN TROOPS OCCUPIE
THE REGION, WHICH IS ALSO HOME
TO THE RUSSIAN BLACK SEA FLEET
MARGARET WARNER JOINS US FRO
CRIMEA
SO WHAT WAS IT LIKE AT THE POLLS
TODAY?
>> THE THING THAT SURPRISED ME
TODAY WAS THE HIGH TURNOUT W
DID OBSERVE AT THE FOUR POLLIN
STATIONS HE WENT TO.
THE ONE EXCEPTION WAS AT A
DISTRICT THAT IS HEAVILY MUSLIM,
THEY SAID THEY WOULD BOYCOTT THE
VOTE AND IT WAS ONLY 10%
THE VOTERS SEEM IN A CELEBRATORY
MOVE
THE HEAD OF ONE POLLS STATIO
SAID ALL SLAVIC PEOPLE, THIS I
A VERY BIG DAY FOR THEM.
WHAT THEY SAID, THEY DON'T
UNDERSTAND THAT THIS I
CALLING -- CAUSING A HUG
EAST/WEST CONFRONTATION.
THE CONCERNS WERE PRACTICAL.
THEY TALKED ABOUT HAVING MOR
JOBS IN INVESTMENT IF THEY
JOINED RUSSIA.
THEY ALSO TALKED ABOUT FEELING
MUCH MORE AT HOME WITH RUSSIA.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS AN AREA THAT
FOR 300 YEARS WAS PART OF RUSSIA
AND THE SOVIET UNION, AND THEY
ALMOST ALL COMPLAINED ABOU
BEING FORCED TO FILL OUT FORMS
IN UKRAINIAN, FOR EXAMPLE.
SO THERE SEEMS TO BE A KIND OF
YEARNING AND ALSO A FEELING THAT
THE WORST -- IS HOSTILE, OR AT
LEAST HAS PEOPLE IN IT HOSTILE
TO TWO RUSSIAN SPEAKERS AN
ETHNIC RUSSIANS HERE
>> SPEAKING OF PRACTICAL
MATTERS, HOW DOES CRIMEA BECOM
A PART OF RUSSIA, HOW QUICKL
COULD THAT HAPPEN?
>> IT COULD HAPPEN QUITE
QUICKLY, HARI.
TONIGHT THE OFFICIAL RESULTS ARE
SUPPOSED TO BEEN ANNOUNCED A
THIS CELEBRATORY CONFERENCE.
TOMORROW MORNING AT 10:00, THE
CRIMEAN PARLIAMENT WILL MEET T
EVALUATE THE RESULTS, BUT THEY
HAVE ALREADY SAID IF THE PUBLI
AFFIRMS THE IDEA THEY ARE READ
TO VOTE.
IN FACT THEY HAVE VOTED TO ASK
RUSSIA TO JOIN
OF COURSE, THERE IS A GROU
HERE
FEEL VERY ALIENATED, WE SPOKE TO
A GROUP THAT SAID THEY DID NOT
VOTE, THEY FEEL OSTRACIZED, AN
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO PARTICIPAT
IN SOMETHING THAT SEEMED
LEGITIMATE TO THEM
SO IT'S NOT A WHOLESAL
ENDORSEMENT OF THIS, BUT I THINK
IT'S GOING TO MOVE VERY FAST, AT
LEAST ON THE CRIMEAN SIDE.
>> ARE THEY READY FOR THIS KIN
OF MOVE?
IT'S A BIG DEAL.
>> IT'S A HUGE STEP.
WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER TH
RUSSIANS WILL ACTUALLY COMPLET
THIS CIRCLE, BUT THE PRIME
MINISTER HERE, AKSENOV, HE'S
ALREADY MADE -- AND TODAY TH
LARGEST COMMERCIAL BANK PUT
SIDE ON ITS DOORS SAYING A
4:30, DAO YOU TO THE CONVERSIO
FROM THE LOCAL CURRENCY TO
RUBLES, THE BANK WILL NOT BE
OPEN ON MONDAY
WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE
INCONVENIENCE.
>> THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT SHIFT.
SO WHAT HAPPENS IN THE NEX
COUPLE DAYS, THE NEXT COMING
WEEKS.
>> WELL, HARI, THERE ARE STILL
HUGE UNKNOWN AS.
THE RUSSIAN DUMA HAS NOT VOTED
HAS MADE MADE THIS OFFICIAL, AND
THERE'S ANOTHER UNANSWERED
QUESTION, WHICH IS HOW QUICKLY
WILL VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT
PUTIN AND THE RUSSIANS FOLLO
THROUGH ON THEIR THREAT TO MOV
INTO EASTERN UKRAINE TO PROTEC
RUSSIAN SPEAKERS AND ETHNI
RUSSIANS THERE
AND OF COURSE HOW QUICKLY WILL
THE U.S. AND THE EU MOVE T
IMPOSE THE SANCTIONS THEY HAVE
THREATENED
TODAY THE WHITE HOUSE SAID I
COULD BE A MATTER OF DAYS, BUT
SECRETARY KERRY AND FOREIG
MINISTER LAVROV DID HAVE A BIG
CONVERSATION THIS MORNING AT
THIS THEY TALKED ABOUT SOLVING
THIS DIPLOMATICALLY THROUG
CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES TO TH
UKRAINE CONSTITUTION
IT'S A COMPLICATED SET O
ISSUES, BUT IT WOULD HAVE TO D
WITH GRANTING MORE AUTONOMY TO
SOME OF THESE REGIONS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, WHERE RUSSIAN SPEAKER
ARE, IF NOT A MAJORITY, IF THE
ARE HERE, THE ETHNIC RUSSIAN
ARE A SIZABLE MINORITY
I WOULD SAY THERE ARE.
I SUPPOSE THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY, PERHAPS REMOVE OF
RESOLVING THIS DIPLOMATICALLY IN
SOME FASHION
>> ALL RIGHT
NEWSHOUR'S CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MARGARET WARNER JOINING US
>> PLEASURE.
>>> PRO-RUSSIA VOTE IS ALMOS
CERTAIN TO HAVE RAMIFICATIONS TO
THE EASTERN PORTION OF UKRAINE
BORDERING RUSSIA, WHERE THERE IS
A LARGE RUSSIAN-SPEAKING
POPULATION, AS ITN'S JOHN IRVINE
REPORTS, PRO-RUSSIAN
DEMONSTRATORS WERE ALREADY OUT
IN SUPPORT TODAY
>> Reporter: AS RUSSIANS I
CRIMEA SAID GOOD-BYE TO UKRAIN
IN WRITING, THEIR PRO-RUSSIA
BRETHREN HERE IN DONESK SHOWED
THEIR DESIRE TO FOLLOW SUIT BY
ATTACKING SYMBOLS OF EYE CRANIAN
AUTHORITIES.
EMPOWERED BY THE PRESENCE OF THE
RUSSIAN ARMY JUST OVER THE
NEARBY BORDER, BESIEGED TH
OFFICE OF THE PUBLIC PROSECUTOR.
UKRAINIAN RIOT POLICE WERE SOO
OVERWHELMED.
THE OFFICERS MAY HAVE BEEN
DRESSED FOR A FIGHT, BUT THE
WOULDN'T
THIS IS A DIFFICULT SITUATIO
FOR THESE UKRAINIAN POLICE
OFFICERS
TO SOME EXTENT, THEY HAVE TO
TOLERATE THESE PROTESTS BECAUS
THEY ARE FULLY AWARE THAT TH
KREMLIN IS WATCHING DEVELOPMENTS
HERE VERY CLOSELY.
EVENTUALLY THIS LITTLE PIECE O
UKRAINIAN RULE WAS OVERWHELMED
BY RUSSIA'S INFLUENCE.
THEY HAVE A TASTE FOR IT NOW AND
ANOTHER TARGET, THE HEADQUARTERS
OF THE UKRAINIAN SECURIT
SERVICES
THE BUILDING APPEARED TO BE WELL
DEFENDED, BUT AGAIN, THESE WER
RIOT POLICE REDUCED TO USING KID
GLOVES
WHEN PUSH CAME TO SHOVE, IT WA
RUSSIA'S ALLIES WHO PREVAILE
ONCE MORE.
MOSCOW'S MEN ARE BECOMIN
INCREASE GILL STRIDENED AN
UKRAINE IS ON THE DEFENSIVE,
SOAKING IT UP, AND HOPING THAT
SOMEHOW IT CAN WEATHER THIS RE
STORM RISING
JOHN IRVINE, I WANT TV NEWS,
DANESK, EASTERN UKRAINE.
>>> FOR MORE ABOUT THE SITUATION
ON THE GROUND IN EASTERN
UKRAINE, WE'RE JOINED VIA SKYP
BY JAMES JONES, WHO IS I
HARKARV REPORTING FOR FRON
LINE
THE UKRAINIANS CALL IT HARKREVE.
THIS IS THE SECOND LARGEST
CITY,Y YANUKOVYCH RAN FO
SUPPORT.
>> HERE IT IS TENSE, AS A WAY OF
SHOWING SOLIDARITY AND THEIR OWN
DESIRE TO PERHAPS GAIN
INDEPENDENCE AND JOAN RUSSIA
THEY HAD IT KIND OF UNOFFICIAL
AND ACTUALLY ILLEGAL REFERENDU
ON THE SQUARE TODAY.
IT SEEMED LIKE ABOUT 10,00
PEOPLE CAME AND THEY WER
CHANTING RUSSIA, PUTIN SAVE US
YOU KNOW SLACKING OFF S AND SO
THEN THEY HAD THIS BIG VOTE,
WHICH FRANKLY IS MEANINGLESS
HAS FOR CONSEQUENCES, BUT IS
JUST TO SHOW A STRENGTH, AND
THEN JUST OUTSIDE, ABOUT 3
METERS FROM WHERE I'M SITTIN
NOW, THEY ARE CURRENTLY TRYING
TO STORM THE GOVERNMEN
BUILDING
AND IT'S VERY HARD TO TELL WHA
PROPORTION OF THE POPULATION
HERE SUPPORT WHAT THEY'RE DOING,
BUT CERTAINLY THIS MINORITY IS
INCREDIBLY VOCAL
>> SO THIS IS A CITY WHERE
NEIGHBOR IS FIGHTING NEIGHBOR ON
THIS PARTICULAR ISSUE?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I MEAN, ON THE STREETS THERE ARE
CONSTANT ARGUMENTS BREAKING OU
BETWEEN PEOPLE, SOME OF WHOM
KNOW EACH OTHER, BUT SIMPL
THEY'RE MILES APART.
SOME OF THESE PEOPLE ARE
DESPERATE TO BECOME PART O
RUSSIA, EVEN GOING BACK TO THE
SOVIET UNION
THERE'S FLAGS HAMMER AND SICKLES
ON THE SQUARE, PEOPLE CHANTING
ABOUT THE SOVIET UNION
IT'S KIND OF A WEIRD TIME WARM
WE ARE IN, YET THE OTHER HALF OF
THE CITY IS INCREDIBLY
SUPPORTIVE
SO, YOU KNOW, IT FEELS VERY,
VERY TENSE HERE, AND ON FRIDAY
NIGHT, A COUPLE PEOPLE WER
KILLED BY THE UKRAINIA
NATIONALISTS, AND THAT
POTENTIALLY IS PROVOCATION THA
GIVES PUTIN LEGITIMATE REASONS
OR AT LEAST THE PRETEXT.
>> JAMES JONES REPORTING FRO
EASTERN UKRAINE.
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>>> AND NOW THE LATEST
INVESTIGATION INTO THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF THAT MALAYSIA
777 JETLINER THAT WENT MISSING
L.A. WEEKEND WITH 239 PEOPLE O
BOARD.
A SENIOR MALAYSIAN OFFICIAL SAID
THE PILOT OF THE PLANE SIGNE
OFF THE FLIGHT CONTROLLERS
WITHOUT INDICATING ANY TROUBLE
ON BOARD, EVEN THOUGH TH
PLANE'S COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
HAD ALREADY BEEN SHUT DOWN
THAT MIGHT INDICATE THE PILO
WAS ACTIVELY MISLEADIN
CONTROLLERS, OR THAT HE WA
BEING COERCED TO DO SO
INVESTIGATORS IN MALAYSIA SAID
TODAY BACKGROUND CHECKS OF THE
PASSENGERS ON FLIGHT 370 SO FA
HAD TURNED UP NOTHING, BUT THE
SAID THEY WERE AWAITIN
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, AND THEY
APPEALED TO OTHER COUNTRIES FO
HELP SOLVING THE MYSTERY
>> THE FOUR AREAS OF OUR FOCUS
ON THE INVESTIGATIONS.
AND NUMBER TWO IS SAEB STAGE
HIJACKING, THREE PERSONA
PROBLEMS, AND FOUR PROBLEMS, AND
THAT INCLUDES THE GROUND STAFF
EVERYTHING
>> POLICE HAVE SEARCHED TH
HOMES OF THE PILOT AND COPILOT
AND ARE EXAMINATION DATA
COLLECTED FROM A FLIGH
SIMULATOR IN THE PILOT'S HOME.
INDIA TODAY PUT ON HOLD IT
SEARCH FOR THE PLANE, WHIC
APPARENTLY HEADED WEST INSTEAD
OF CONTINUING NORTH ON THE
INTENDED FLIGHT PATH FROM KUAL
LUMPUR TO BEIJING.
THE PRIME MINISTER YESTERDAY
SAID THE PLANE WAS DELIBERATEL
TIERED OFF-COURSE AFTER SOMEON
ON BOARD SHUT DOWN ITS
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.
>>> FOR MORE ABOUT THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF THE MALAYSIAN
JETLINER, WE'RE JOINED FRO
WASHINGTON BY MIKE AT SCHMIDT OF
"NEW YORK TIMES" WHO HAS BEE
COVERING THE STORY FOR THEM.
WE'VE HEARD THAT THEY HAVE
LOOKED THROUGH THE HOMES OF TH
PILOTS AND TRIED TO FIND ANY
CONNECTION TO TERRORISM THERE.
>> THEY HAVE ACCESS NOW TO A
FLIGHT SIMULATOR THAT ONE OF THE
PILOTS HAD IN HIS HOUSE.
THEY'RE GOING THROUGH THAT, AN
THEY'RE ALSO GOING THROUGH SOM
COMPUTERS THEY FOUND THERE, AN
ARE ALSO TALKING TO HIS FAMILY
MEMBERS.
AS OF TODAY, AS WE'VE SEEN THE
STORY HAS CHANGED SO MUCH, THE
FOCUS IS NOW ON THE PILOT.
>> HOW MUCH ACCESS TO AMERICAN
INVESTIGATORS OR U.S. AGENCIES
HAVE TO THE FRUITS OF THES
INVESTIGATIONS
>> WELL, THEY ACTUALLY DON'T
HAVE A LOT
IN TERMS OF RAW DATA AND I
TERMS OF WHERE THE PLANE MAY
HAVE BEEN AND SATELLITE IMAGER
AND SORT OF PINGS THAT HAVE GONE
OFF THE PLANE, THE U.S. HAS
FAIR AMOUNT OF ACCESS TO THA
INFORMATION, BUT THEY DON'T KNOW
A LOT ABOUT THE MALAYSIA
INVESTIGATION, THEY NOT ASKE
FOR FORMAL HELP FROM THE
AMERICANS, AND THE FBI HAS LES
THAN A HANDFUL OF GUYS ON TH
GROUND THERE, SO IN TERMS OF THE
ACTUAL INVESTIGATION OF WH
THESE PEOPLE WERE AND WHAT THEIR
MOTIVATIONS MAY HAVE BEEN, THE
U.S. HAS FAR LESS VISIBILITY
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'
FRUSTRATED OFFICIALS HERE IN
WASHINGTON
>> IN SOME OF YOUR REPORTING
YOU POINTED OUT THAT MALAYSIAN
RADAR ESSENTIAL PICKED U
THIS -- MILITARY RADAR DID, BU
NOBODY SENT UP A WARNING FLARE
THERE WERE JETS READY TO
SCRAMBLE, BUT NOBODY DID
>> CORRECT, AND THERE'S A LOT OF
QUESTIONS THAT HAVE COME OUT
ABOUT THE MA LAZE, BUT WHY THE
HAVEN'T BEEN SHARING MOR
INFORMATION SOONER AND WHY I
TOOK THEM OVER A WEEK TO COM
OUT AND MAKE THE DECLARATION
THEY DID THE OTHER DAY ABOUT THE
TRANSPONDERS AND HOW THE
THOUGHT IT WAS FOUL PLAY
AS THE AMERICANS LOOK AT THIS,
THEY SAY, WELL, WE HAVE A LOT OF
EXPERTISE AND COULD HELP, BU
THE MALAYSIANS DON'T WANT TO
LOOK LIKE THEY CAN'T DO IT O
THEIR OWN AND THEY DON'T WANT US
TO DO IT FOR THEM.
SO THE U.S. STANDS ON TH
OUTSIDE LIKE MANY OF US AN
LOOKS IN AND THEORYIZES, BUT
DON'T KNOW MUCH MORE THAN ANY OF
US DO.
>> HOW COSTLY HAS THAT TIM
BEEN
IN THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT ALL
THESE PLANES AND SHIPS HAVE BEEN
LOOKING, REALLY IN THE WRONG
AREA
>> LOOK, THE PROBLEM IS TH
OCEAN THERE IS JUST SO BIG AND
SO FAST, AND THERE'S SO MUCH
AREA THAT CAN BE COVERED
BECAUSE THE TRANSPONDERS WEN
OFF, THEY HAVE VERY LITTLE CLU
OF WHERE IT COULD BE
IF THE PLANE HAD HYPOTHETICALL
BLOWN UP AS IT WAS GOING ON IT
ROUTE, THEN THEY WOULD HAVE
CLEAR IDEA OF WHERE TO LOOK.
THERE WOULD BE SORT OF A NARROW,
SORT OF AREA THAT THEY COULD
LOOK THROUGH ON THE WATER, BUT
THEY ESSENTIALLY HAVE AN ENTIR
OCEAN TO LOOK AT
THAT'S REALLY, REALLY DIFFICULT.
THERE'S EVEN SOME FOLKS WHO THEY
THINK MAY NEVER EVEN FIND IT
THAT'S PROBABLY THE ISSUE HERE
>> BASED ON ALL YOUR REPORTING
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE MOS
LIKELY SCENARIO?
>> UNFORTUNATELY I THINK THE
PLANE IS AT THE BOTTOM OF TH
OCEAN.
IT SEEMS FAR-FETCHED TO THIN
THE PLANE WAS TAKEN SOMEWHERE,
LANDED AND NO ONE HAS DETECTED
IT
IF YOU TALK TO AVIATION EXPERTS,
THEY SAYI DIFFICULT TO SORT OF
HIDE A PLANE OF THIS SIZE AN
FOR IT TO JUST SORT OF LAND UP
SOMEWHERE ON LAND WITHOUT IN
THIS FINDING IT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>>> NATO SAYS A CYBERATTAC
APPARENTLY LINKED TO THE
CONFLICT IN UKRAINE BROUGHT DOWN
SEVERAL OF ITS WEB SITES LAS
NIGHT.
A PRO-RUSSIAN GROUP CLAIMING
RESPOND SET IT TARGETED NATO
BECAUSE OF THE WHAT IT CALLE
THE WESTERN ALLIANCES'
INTERFERENCE
NATO SAID IT DID NOT BEAD IT
ABILITY TO COMMAND AND THE
CLASSIFIED NETWORKS WERE NOT
AFFECTED
>>> ELSEWHERE IN WESTERN EUROPE,
PARIS AND OTHER CITIES I
NORTHERN FRANCE ARE SUFFERIN
THROUGH SEVERE SMOG.
IN RESPONSE, PARISIAN OFFICIAL
HAVE MADE ALL TRAVELS ON SUBWA
AND BUSES FREE
STARTING TOMORROW THEY WIL
PLACE TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS ON
DRIVERS AND MOTORCYCLES TO STOP,
WITH ODD-NUMBERED LICENSE PLATES
BEING A LAED TO DRIVE ONE DAY,
AND THOSE WITH EVEN-NUMBERED
LICENSE PLATES THE NEXT.
THEY ISSUED A HEALTH ADVISOR
FOR THE ELDERLY, SMALL CHILDRE
AND THOSE WITH RESPIRATORY
CONDITIONS
>>> NORTH KOREA TODAY LAUNCHED
25 SHORT-RANGE ROCKETS INTO TH
SEA OFF ITS EAST COAST
THIS IN APPARENT RETALIATION FOR
ONGOING MILITARY EXERCISES
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AN
SOUTH KOREA.
THE NORTH SAYS THE MILITAR
DRILLS ARE A PRETEXT FOR A
INVASION
THE U.S. AND SOUTH KOREA SAY THE
DRILLS ARE PURELY DEFENSIVE.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, AN ARM
GENERAL BEING PROSECUTED FOR
SEXUAL ASSAULT HAS REPORTEDL
AGREED TO PLEAD GUILTY TO LESSER
CHARGES, THIS ACCORDING TO "NE
YORK TIMES," BRIGADIER GENERAL
JEFFREY SINCLAIR IS EXPECTED T
ENTER THE PLEA AT FT. BRAGG AT
NORTH CAROLINA, POSSIBLY
TOMORROW MORNING
>>> HONDA IS RECALLING NEARL
900,000 ODYSSEY MINIVANS MAD
BETWEEN 2005 AND 2010.
THE COMPANY SAYS THE ADVANCE
COULD CATCH ON FIRE BECAUSE OF A
FAULTY PART THAT CAN LEAK FUEL
HONDA SAYS IT KNOWS OF NO FIRE
AND INJURIES TO DAY.
>>> AND DAVID BRENNER HAS DIED
OF CANCER.
ACCORDING TO HIS FAMILY.
BRENNER'S FINAL REQUEST WAS TO
BE BURIED WITH $100 IN SMALL
BILLS IN HIS LEFT SOCK, JUST I
CASE, HE SAID, TIPPING I
RECOMMENDED WHERE I'M GOING.
DAVID BRENNER WAS 78
>>> WE WANT TO TURN TO ANOTHER
STORE THAT'S GOTTEN A LOT LESS
ATTENTION, OUTBREAKS O
MEALSLES
IT'S PART OF A LARGER STORY THAT
INFECTIOUS DISEASES THAT ALL BUT
DISAPPEARED IN THE U.S. ARE NO
REAPPEARS.
THE CDC SAYS THE NUMBER OF
MEALSLE CASES WAS THREE TIME
NORMAL AND MORE THAN 20 CASE
HAVE BEEN REPORTED IN NEW YORK
THIS YEAR.
YESTERDAY I SPOKE WITH STEVE
MORSE AT THE MELLMAN SCHOOL OF
PUBLIC HEALTH AT COLUMBI
UNIVERSITY
I BEGAN BY ASKING HIM WHAT H
THOUGHT WAS BEHIND IS THE TREN
>> MEALSLES IS VACCINE
PREVENTABLE, SO TO A LARGE
EXTENT IT'S BECAUSE OF THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT BEING
IMMUNIZED OR TOO YOUNG TO BE
IMMUNIZED.
NORMALLY WE START RECOMMENDING
IMMUNIZATION AT ABOUT ONE YEAR
BUT, FOR EXAMPLE, WE HAD A
OUTBREAK LAST SUMMER I
BROOKLYN, LARGELY BECAUSE TH
DECISION IN THOSE COMMUNITIE
CAUSE TO WAIT BEFORE IMMUNIZIN
THE CHILDREN, AND VACCINATE THEM
LATER.
SO SOME OF THE YOUNGER CHILDRE
GOT INFECTED
>> SO HOW MUCH OF THIS I
RELATED TO PEOPLE COMING IN FROM
OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD
AND THEN COMBINING WITH THOS
POPULATIONS HERE THAT AREN'T
IMMUNIZED?
>> IN MOST CASES, THAT'S WHAT'
HAPPENING.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF PLACES I
THE NETHERLANDS, FOR EXAMPLE
WHERE FOR VARIOUS REASONS THER
ARE COMMUNITIES, VARIOUS
RELIGIOUS COMMUNITIES, FOR
EXAMPLE, THAT REFUSE
IMMUNIZATION
THEY JUST DON'T WANT TO BE
IMMUNIZED.
OCCASIONALLY A CASE WILL BREAK
OUT THERE IN THAT POPULATION
SOMEONE WILL COME OVER HERE AN
INTRODUCE IT, AND MOST OF TH
POPULATION IS IMMUNIZED AN
PROTECTED, BUT NOT EVERYBODY
>> WHAT ARE SOME OF THE OTHE
INFECTIOUS DISEASES THAT KEE
YOU UP AT NIGHT?
WHEN I WAS LOOKING THIS UP
SCARLET FEVER CASES ARE UP AT
24-YEAR HIGHS IN THE UK.
OBVIOUSLY IN THIS GLOBAL AND
CONNECTED WORLD, PEOPLE AR
CARRYING DISEASES, ALONG WIT
THEIR LUGGAGE AS THEY CARRY TO
AND FROM
>> THE ONE THAT WORE ME Z WORR
ME THE MOST IS THE ONE WE DON'
KNOW ABOUT
SCARLET FEVER HAS BEEN WITH US
FOR A LONG TIME.
MY MOTHER WAS HOSPITALIZED WIT
IT 60 OR 70 YEARS AGO, AND I
WAS VERY COMMON THEN
WE DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY IT WAXES
AND WANES, AND THE STREP TOE
COKE US BACTERIUM OF WHICH IT IS
A MEMBER, IS WITH US ALL THE
SOMETIME
STREP THROAT, FOR EXAMPLE, BUT
SOME OF THE DIFFERENT FORMS SEEM
TO HAVE THEIR OWN VARIABLE
PATTERNS, AND THEN OF COURSE W
HAVE MENINGITIS, WHICH IS ALSO
BACTERIAL, BUT AN UNUSUAL TIME
FOR WHICH WE DO NOT HAVE A
EFFECTIVE VACCINE YET IN THI
COUNTRY, ALTHOUGH WE WILL BE
LICENSING THAT SOON.
>> HOW MUCH OF THIS IS KIND OF
OUR OWN SUCCESS LEADING TO A
CERTAIN TYPE OF COMPLACENCY.
YOU SAID YOUR MOTHER HAD SCARLET
FEVER.
YOU HAD FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE OF
IT
YOU KNEW WHAT TO BE FEARFUL OF
MOST OF US HAVE NOT SEEN POLIO
OR MEALSLES IN OUR LIFETIME.
>> I THINK THAT'S ABSOLUTELY
TRUE
FOR THE DISEASES THAT AR
VACCINE PREVENTABLE, AND MOR
AND MORE ARE, I HAD MEALSLES
WHEN I WAS A CHILD AND THEN IN
FACT A VACCINE WAS DEVELOPED A
FEW YEARS LATER.
IT'S POSSIBLE TO BE IMMUNIZE
AND NOT HAVE TO EXPERIENCE WHA
SO MANY OF US WENT THROUGH
EARLIER, BUT FOR THE VACCINE
PREVENTABLE DISEASES, VERY OFTEN
IT'S JUST THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE
AFRAID TO BE IMMUNIZED, AFRAID
TO HAVE THEIR CHILDREN IMMUNIZED
FOR WHATEVER REASON, AND DEPENDS
ON THEIR NEIGHBORS TO PROTEC
THEM
MEALSLES IS EXTREMEL
TRANSMISCIBLE, SO YOU NEED A
HIGH LEVEL OF IMMUNIZATION T
PROTECT PEOPLE
SO THE COMPLACENCY I THINK I
THE FACT THAT WE DON'T SEE THE
THREAT QUITE THE WAY WE DID 50
YEARS AGO, OR PERHAPS EVEN
25IER.
STEVEN MORSE FROM COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> SEE WHAT INFECTIOU
DISEASES ARE BREAKING OUT AROUND
THE CORNER AND AROUND THE WORLD?
VERSUS NEWSHOUR.PBS.WORLD.
>>> MARGARET WARNER WILL HAV
THE LATEST ON THE CRISIS I
UKRAINE AS SHE CONTINUES HER
REPORTING.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION
THANKS FOR WATCHING.